- [Instructor] Now that we have our pointcut
and everything necessary for the framework
to execute an aspect, we're going to create a before advice
to execute before the join point
that that pointcut will select.
So let's jump into our IDE, in our LoggingAspect class.
The first thing that we need to do
is we need to put a logger in this class.
So we're going to create a private static final Logger.
Make sure you get the one from slf4j,
call it LOGGER and we'll get that from the LoggerFactory
and we'll just send it in the LoggingAspect.class
as the prime for the logger.
Now we're going to do our actual advice,
so we're going to create a @Before advice
and that @Before advice is going to execute
against the executeLogging method.
Now I alluded to earlier, you don't have to do it this way.
We could put the pointcut here,
but I actually prefer to keep them separate.
I think it gives me a better visualization
of what's going on by separating them.
And that way I can use a pointcut
for multiple advice if I want to.
So we will do a @Before executeLogging
and this is a public void method.
We're going to call this one logMethodCall
and this is going to take a parameter of a JoinPoint.
Now what this will do is it'll allow us to have details
about the actual call itself,
which is what we want to do
if we're going to write a logging method.
So first thing I'm going to do
is I'm going to use StringBuilder and create a message,
and we will simply begin this with method colon space.
Now we want to go get our method name.
So message.append, and to get the method name
we'll go to the joinPoint, we will get the signature,
which is the signature of the method
and from that we will get the name.
You'll see signature has many options.
In this case we only care about name,
but there's more on that to come.
Now we also want to capture the arguments that were used.
Now be very careful if you do this in production code
because obviously sometimes these arguments are sensitive
and you don't really always want to get them.
But in this case we will, so we will get the args
from the joinPoint and put that into an array of Objects.
Now if that Object array does not equal null
and the length of that array is greater than zero,
then we want to add to our message.
So we will do a message.append, double quotes, space,
args equals, so our args, we're going to do this
with a square bracket, space, and then a pipe to begin with,
and a space after that pipe.
This will just give us a little bit of structure here,
to our log messages.
Now, Arrays.asList args.
I'm just going to use a lambda to here to do this
because I can do a forEach on this.
So for each arg
I want to take and spit out into the message
the argument itself,
and then I need to put a pipe behind it.
So we will do space, pipe, space.
And now when all of that is done, we need to close this out.
So we'll do a message.append
and we will simply close this out to square bracket
so it looks okay in our logs.
And at the end of all of that,
we will do a logger.info message.toString
and we're good to go.
Now we need somewhere to execute against.
So this is going against a Loggable annotation.
So let's go to our GreetingService
and to our getGreeting method
let's add the annotation @Loggable
and we can then run our application.
I'm running it against dev right now,
but you'll see here we get into our standard out
because I piped all of the Log4j to standard out.
We get a LoggingAspect log, which is method getGreeting,
args is Partner, which is what was passed in,
and then we get our standard out from before.
So we've applied this cost-cutting concern
to this method through a simple interface.
Now in the real world, I'd package this aspect up
into its own shared component
and share it across an entire org.
But for this purposes, it allows us to get the basics
of writing and aspect.